<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../stylesheets/toc-tables.css">

# Stable Release v0.11.0

[graphic here]

[Introduction Here]

[Major Features Here]

For a full release changelog - [see here](#changelog)

!!! tip "Recommended Settings"
    Before your first flight, please make sure to read our [Recommended Settings](../fbw-a32nx/settings.md) guide.

    **SimBrief Integration**

    We have streamlined the the authentication process with Navigraph services (SimBrief included). Please note any changes on the following page:

    [SimBrief Integration](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/simbrief.md){.md-button}

    **Navigraph Airframe**

    The team at Navigraph have been kind enough to include our airframe as a selectable option on SimBrief. You no longer have to save our custom airframe to your account to 
    use it. If we decide to make any changes, it will be automatically updated in their system.

    [Guide Here](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/simbrief.md#simbrief-airframe){.md-button}

!!! warning "Important User Experience Changes"

    Please note the following changes.

    SimBridge is now required to use the following features:

    - Terrain on ND 
    - MCDU Remote Display
    - External Printer
    - Local Files feature
    - Company Routes

    [SimBridge Guides Here](../simbridge/index.md){.md-button}

    - Custom Flight Management System.
        - See the [Special Notes Section](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/cFMS.md#special-notes) on our custom FMS page for more details.
    - Weather is inoperable as we wait for Asobo implementations.
    - MSFS Built-in ATC and VFR maps are on limited support. [Guides Here](#)
    - [Discontinuities](../pilots-corner/advanced-guides/flight-planning/disco.md) may now appear in your flight plan — they are a feature and not a bug.
    - [Throttle calibration](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/flypados3/throttle-calibration.md) is **mandatory**.

!!! info ""
Downloads available through our [installer](../fbw-a32nx/installation.md).

    Please see our [Support Guide](../fbw-a32nx/support/index.md) and [Reported Issues](../fbw-a32nx/support/reported-issues.md).

---

## Feature Details

### VNAV

We are thrilled to introduce the foundational layer of the vertical navigation capabilities (VNAV) in the A32NX. This release incorporates the rudimentary vertical prediction and 
guidance functions, laying the groundwork for advance functionalities in future updates.

Simulation pilots scan accept the following in the current version:

- Precision in speed, altitude, time, and fuel predictions through all flight phases as showcased in the MCDU.
- Display of vertical predictions on the navigation screen including the top of descent, vertical path, target altitude, target speed, and relevant [Navigation Display symbology](#).
- Vertical guidance in managed modes providing vertical path and speed guidance. 
- Capability to set cruise steps directly in the MCDU.
- Set cruise steps directly in the MCDU. 

!!! note "Development Pipeline"
    We wanted to provide a short note that this first iteration release into the stable version does not include certain features that are still currently in development.

### flyPadOS Version 3.2 

Our latest flyPadOS brings forward server key enhancements and fixes that pilots can now enjoy.

!!! tip ""
    **EFB/ATSU Improvements** 

    We've not incorporated the reliable NOAA ([aviationweather.gov](https://aviationweather.gov/)) as a METAR source, ensuring you have the most accurate and up-to-date weather data. Additionally, our system will now utilize MSFS METAR data, moving away from the older FSX cloud data original provided through the FBW API. This will ensure a more synchronized weather experience in your flight deck.

### SimBridge

### Cross Bleed Engine Starts

Pilots are now able to initiate an engine start from crossbleed air. This procedure is normal performed when the APU Bleed start is not possible. For more information visit our 
dedicated [Crossbleed Engine Start](#) page.

We have further expanded our suite of sensor simulation in the aircraft to support this feature.

!!! tip "" 
    **Engine and Crossbleed Updates**

    - Initiate engine start from crossbleed air.
    - Fully open/fully closed sensors for the crossbleed valve.
    - Crossbleed valve indications for open, closed, and in-transfer status.

!!! tip "" 
    **Sensor Implementations**
    - Pressure sensors for regulated, transfer, and precooler inlet pressures.
    - Precooler outlet temperature sensor.

!!! tip "" 
    **SD Bleed Page Enhancements**
    - Updated SD Bleed page indications.
    - Adjusted precooler inlet pressure's green/amber logic.
    - 5-second confirmation before displaying a closed indication for the pressure regulating valve.

!!! tip ""
    **BMC and ECAM Updates**
    
    - Bleed air overpressure, underpressure, and overheat detection in the BMC. 
 
!!! note ""
    ECAM warnings to be added in future updates

**Valve and Regulation Improvements**
- Enhanced fan air valve regulation logic.
- Overpressure valve implemented. 
- Reworked high-pressure valve regulation.

**Physics and Efficiency Updates**
- Reworked engine compressor physics. 
- Increased precooler cooling efficiency. 
- Tuned APU bleed pressure.

**Fault Light Logic**
- Reworked pack fault light logic for better accuracy.

### Air Conditioning Simulation + Failures

This release introduces a realistically simulated intricate model of the Air Conditioning System tailored specifically to emulate an A320 equipped with an ACSC (Air 
Conditioning System Controller). Key additions include:

- ARINC Discrete Communication: To ensure high-fidelity data transfer and system controls.
- Valve Simulation and Dynamics: Detailed simulation of the TAPRV (Trim Air Pressure Regulating Valve) and TAV (Trim Air Valves) have been introduced. Along with this, users will observe a more realistic temperature response time from the pack, further enhancing the immersion until packs are fully modeled.
- System Failures: A crucial aspect of any simulation is the unpredictability and the challenges it presents. Pilots can now set failures in various compontents. See our 
  [Custom Air Conditioning](#) page for more information.
  - Additional Failures Introduced: For those seeking an added layer of challenge and immersion, we've implemented scenarios like trim air system high-pressure malfunctions and duct overheats. 

### Improvements to Our Flight Data Recorder

### Flight Instrument Improvements

---

## Changelog

- [APU] APU can now consume fuel - @tracernz (Mike)
- [APU] Added xfeed APU fuel capabilities - @Taz5150 (TazX - [Z+1]#0405)
- [ATSU] Fix ATIS Auto Update LSK6L to ATIS page instead of ATC MENU - @BravoMike99 (bruno_pt99)
- [BLEED] Allow engine start from crossbleed air - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [BLEED] Improve bleed page visuals on the SD - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [BLEED] Use more accurate pneumatic valves and sensors - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [COND] Add Air Conditioning systems failures - @mjuhe (Miquel Juhe)
- [COND] Fixed Temp-Indication on CRZ page showing cockpit temperature for fwd and aft cabin - @cptnuss-ops (Lukas)
- [EFB/ATSU] Added NOAA (aviationweather.gov) as a METAR source - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB/ATSU] Added NOAA (aviationweather.gov) as a METAR source - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB/ATSU] Use MSFS METAR data rather than FSX cloud data from FBW API - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB/FWC] Auto Call Outs selectable - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB/PAYLOAD] flyPad OS 3.2 - Allow for multi-gate boarding when multiple doors are open - @2hwk (2cas)
- [EFB] Added UI message on fuel/payload page when GSX is activated - @frankkopp (Frank Kopp)
- [EFB] Added pause at T/D function - @2hwk (2Cas#1022)
- [EFB] Fixed Simbridge failing to connect if remote setting is enabled then disabled - @DevonDF (Devon#9451)
- [EFB] Fixed the main page and landing calculator to use the selected METAR source - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB] Fixed the main page and landing calculator to use the selected METAR source - @tracernz (Mike)
- [EFB] flyPad OS 3.2 - Cosmetic changes for throttle configuration settings and support for multiple airframes - @2hwk (2cas)
- [EIS] Added > character to the font - @KiloEchoVictor (Kevin)
- [FDR] Add secondary engine parameters to FDR - @Taz5150 (TazX - [Z+2]#0405)
- [FLIGHTMODEL] Fix outer to inner tank transfer valve closure - @donstim (donbikes)
- [FMS] Add a default RNP of 0.3 for RNP AR procedure legs - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] Add basic support for FA legs - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] Implement CHECK SPEED MODE message - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [FMS] Implement vertical navigation functions - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [FMS] Improve layout of PERF CLB, PERF CRZ and PERF DES pages according to H3 - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [FMS] Improved robustness of ILS selection - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] Load procedures that reference a runway correctly - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] Show ILS ident and frequency on ARRIVAL page - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] TO SPEEDS TOO LOW uses FQI fuel quantity after engine start to avoid spurious warnings - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FMS] Use station declination when appropriate for fix info and place/bearing radials - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FWC] Added "twenty five hundred" and "two thousand" callouts - @tracernz (Mike)
- [FWC] WING TANK LO LVL message now considers centre tank mode selector - @tracernz (Mike)
- [HYD] Added hydraulic reverser actuators - @Crocket63 (crocket)
- [ISIS] Fixed the ISIS alt tape order for negative altitudes - @aweissoertel (Alex)
- [MCDU/ND] Corrected altitude formatting with respect to transition altitude and transition level - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] Add basic MCDU MENU functionality - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] Add basic annunciator support - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] Don't calculate V-speeds when FoB not available - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] Fixed the FMGC annunciator light not illuminating - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] PERF APPR page no longer demands QNH and TEMP when outside 180NM from destination - @robertxing2004 (robeet)
- [MCDU] Split subsystem scratchpads - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] The remote MCDU protocol now sends the annunciator light state - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] The remote MCDU protocol now sends the display and integral light brightness - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] The remote MCDU protocol now supports the BRT/DIM keys - @tracernz (Mike)
- [MCDU] ZFW/ZFWCG auto-fill uses desired values when boarding in progress - @tracernz (Mike)
- [ND] Fix ROSE VOR/LS conditions and ILS course - @tracernz (Mike)
- [ND] Mask the map below the TCAS/WXR and FM messages - @tracernz (Mike)
- [PAYLOAD] Re-enabled FBW sounds when using GSX Integration
- [PFD] Adjusted size of pitch trim messages - @tracernz (Mike)
- [PFD] Corrected the NO DH logic in the FMS and PFD - @tracernz (Mike)
- [SD] Added a display duration of 3s for STS page - @pluce
- [SD] Connect SD BLEED page APU bleed pressure indication to correct ADRs - @BlueberryKing (BlueberryKing)
- [SD] Corrected fuel transfer valve amber logic - @tracernz (Mike)
- [SD] Corrected position of outer tank fuel quantity values - @robertxing2004 (robeet)
- [SD] Corrected thickness and position of lower ECAM fuel page lines - @robertxing2004 (robeet)