# Stable Release v0.8.0

This release now includes these major features:

- Custom Flight Management System with huge improvements to LNAV capability
- Hydraulics ...
- Separated Tiller ...
- Hoppie ACARS ...
- TCAS ...
- Livery Mesh Changes
- MDCU Web Interface
- AP, FBW, and A/THR improvements
- Various system improvements
- [more highlights here]

For a full release changelog - [see here](#changelog)

!!! info ""
    Downloads available through our [installer](../fbw-a32nx/installation.md) or [website](https://flybywiresim.com/a32nx/#download).

    Please see our [Support Guide](../fbw-a32nx/support/index.md) and [Reported Issues](../fbw-a32nx/support/reported-issues.md).

## Quick Links

## Custom Flight Management System

A crucial part of every IFR flight is planning your route, departures, and arrivals. Our new custom flight management focuses on bringing the system architecture even closer to 
how the real A320 handles FMS data and the interactions.

We have completed major improvements to the LNAV portion of the custom FMS. This in turn has allows the FMS to have full authority on drawing the flight plan. With a wide 
support for various procedure leg types you should experience flight paths that are more accurate to real life lateral SID/STAR constraints encoded in the navdata, better 
flight path prediction, and *finally* programmable holds!

To learn more about our custom FMS see our documentation - [here](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/cFMS.md)

**images here**

## Hydraulics

A large amount of work has been done to create and implement a realistic simulation of various hydraulic systems in the A32NX. This update features ailerons and elevator 
hydraulic control (visual and hydraulic only), a physics based PTU, emergency generator simulation (no model yet), and even our first iteration of the custom bleed system. You 
may even notice the ailerons droop when the aircraft is unpowered at the gate commonly known as "aileron droop". This even means that heavy winds on the ground can displace the 
rudder visually when unpowered, while the aerodynamic model can affect moving parts.

As a part of the hydraulic update we have also made the ground handling much more realistic and have finally implemented steering via the [tiller](#separated-tiller)

We have written a dedicated NOTAM [Hydraulics Development Update](https://flybywiresim.com/notams/hydraulics-update-2022/) that explains a lot of these changes in detail.

## Separated Tiller

Nose wheel steering can now be accomplished via the tiller! 

## Changelog

{{ external_markdown('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/flybywiresim/a32nx/v0.8/.github/CHANGELOG.md', '## 0.8.0') }}