# Stable Release v0.8.1

This release includes various bugfixes and a notable change to how our *disable AI assists* feature works. See the warning below!

For our VR users we have added the missing PilotVR default camera entry to work around an MSFS issue. You can read more about the issue - [here](https://forums.flightsimulator.com/t/bug-fs2020-using-3d-cockpit-camera-in-vr-wrong-horizontal-plane-rotation-ex-fbw-a320-salty-747-asobo-787-sdk-sample/428618?u=cptlucky8){target=new}.

!!! danger "MSFS AI Assistance"
    Due to 3rd party mods that bypass the method we have implemented to disable AI assists we have decided to no longer force the assistance functions. This would cause issues 
    if we update our flight model and these 3rd party mods are installed.

    {--

    Having any AI features or assistance features switched on created some stability issues with our custom systems:

    - A/THR failing to arm or activate.
    - Engines turning off in-flight or after takeoff.
    - Constant right or left rudder.
    - Inability to taxi.

    --}

    Read our [Recommended Settings Page](../fbw-a32nx/settings.md)

[See Previous Release - v0.8.0](v080.md){.md-button}

For a full release changelog - [see here](#changelog)

!!! tip "Recommended Settings"
    Before your first flight please make sure to read our [Recommended Settings](../fbw-a32nx/settings.md) guide.

!!! warning "Important User Experience Changes"

    Please note the following changes:

    - Custom Flight Management System
        - See the [Special Notes Section](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/cFMS.md#special-notes) on our custom FMS page for details on the topics below:
            - Weather and Terrain are now inoperable as we wait for Asobo implementations.
            - MSFS Built-in ATC and VFR maps are on limited support.
    - [Discontinuities](../pilots-corner/advanced-guides/flight-planning/disco.md) may now appear in your flight plan — they are a feature and not a bug.
    - [Throttle calibration](../fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/flypados2/throttle-calibration.md) is mandatory.

!!! info ""
    Downloads available through our [installer](../fbw-a32nx/installation.md).

    Please see our [Support Guide](../fbw-a32nx/support/index.md) and [Reported Issues](../fbw-a32nx/support/reported-issues.md).

## Changelog

- [ATHR] Initialize throttle position to IDLE
- [ATSU] Fixes for NXApi-Freetext and CPDLC Logon-issues
- [BUILD] Installer version detection
- [FBW] Rudder stuck on one side
- [FMGC] Clean up unneeded changes from #7114 (DIR TO with anticipated turn)
- [GENERAL] Do no longer force disable assistance
- [GENERAL] Ensure notifications are dismissed on exit to main menu
- [GENERAL] Only show warning due to enabled assistants when in cockpit
- [ISIS] Force css animations
- [SOUND] Prevent autopilot sound on Cold and Dark spawn
- [VR] Update cameras.cfg

### Build System

- build: port metadata script to nodejs (#7133)
- ci: Upload to GitHub Pre-Release Assets (#7154)
- ci: recognise external downloads in installer (#7062)
- fix(ci): GitHub workflows failing on old assets (#7160)
- fix(ci): upload addon packages for manual download to CDN (#7153)
- fix(ci): workflow failing

### Miscellaneous

- feat: added new events to SPAD.neXt reference (#7172)