# Experimental Version

!!! danger "No Support for Experimental - use at own risk"
    Please do not seek support for the Experimental Version on Discord and only report issues if you have read this page and the reported and known issues. You can report issues in the Discord channel "#ata-22-fms" in the thread "[CFMS LNAV ONLY Bugs + Issues](https://discord.com/channels/738864299392630914/876140343735771147/882442909918584862){ target=new }".

---

## FlyByWire Custom Flight Management System (cFMS)

### Features

- Flight plan manager overhaul
- Edit SID/STAR/APPR waypoints
- Cross-track error indicator
- USR waypoints are gone
- Multiple leg types
    - TF: Track to a Fix defines a great circle track over ground between two known databases fixes.
    - RF: Constant Radius Arc defines a constant radius turn between two database fixes, lines tangent to the arc and a center fix.
    - VM: Heading to a manual termination defines a specified heading until a Manual termination.
- LNAV turn prediction
- Roll anticipation distance
- Correct procedure and direct-to sequencing
- Improved flight plan rendering / drawing
- Improved ND display filters for  ARPT, VOR, NDB, WPTs
- FIX INFO for radials and distance circles on navigation fixes

### Known Issues

*Last Update: {{git_revision_date_localized}}*<br/>
(get the latest list from our Discord: [Experimental Known Issues List](https://discord.com/channels/738864299392630914/876140343735771147/876140346009075722){target=new})

- Approach phase must be manually activated
- In-sim default ATC and VFR map is not 100% supported. Mileage will vary. On routes with significant differences from your flight plan in our FMS (See ND plan mode), don't expect it to go too well.
- Route on VFR map will not match up with what is shown on the ND.
- Only 3 Leg Types/1 Transition supported at this time
- WX and TERR on ND INOP
- Rendering of flight path on the ND of terminal procedure legs may be glitched or incorrect during cruise
- Rendering of flight path on the ND of legs will be glitched or incorrect if you are flying faster than the appropriate/correct speed
- ETA in F-PLN A on the MCDU may not be 100% accurate
- Fuel calculations are incorrect
- No traffic shown, TCAS elements are cosmetic only
- Defining both from/to in the world map do show in the from/to init page but do not populate the airport list in METAR (AOC)
- Flight plan frozen on loading in (Please post the specific route on which this occurs and under what circumstances, i.e. spawning in c&d using the MSFS flight planner, or simbrief, or loading in .PLN generated by simbrief or other external program)
- DIRECT-TO: Turning point is not correctly implemented yet.

### How to Report Issues

At this time please only report issues via our Discord channel "#ata-22-fms" in the thread "[CFMS LNAV ONLY Bugs + Issues](https://discord.com/channels/738864299392630914/876140343735771147/882442909918584862){ target=new }".

!!! warning
    Please read the above Known Issues list and also use the search of  Discord to see if your issue has already been reported.

**Do not open any issues on Github for the Experimental Version!**

<!--### Download and Install-->

<!--See [Installation Guide](../installation.md#downloads).-->

---

!!! danger "No Support for Experimental - use at own risk"
    Please do not seek support for the Experimental Version on Discord and only report issues if you have read this page and the reported and known issues. You can report issues in the Discord channel "#ata-22-fms" in the thread "[CFMS LNAV ONLY Bugs + Issues](https://discord.com/channels/738864299392630914/876140343735771147/882442909918584862){ target=new }".
